# Release 3.0.0 Migration

Release 3.0.0 is a major release and many changes have been made. Migrating from 2.x.x requires some effort:

- H2 database: version update from 1.4.200 to 2.2.224:
	- The new H2 database drivers cannot read the database version 1.4.200; too many changes have been made.
	- If you are using H2, it is best to export your data and import it into the new database.
	
- Handlers:
	- Method `replaceVariables` and `replaceTemplateVariables` have been replaced by `render` and `renderAll`.
		- `render`: Template variable `{$var}` is set by `setVar("var", value);` in this method.
		- `renderAll`: Global template variable (whole page) `{$var}` is set by `setVarAll("var", value);` in this method.

- DB tables (see DB install script):
	- Add columns `phone` to table `users`; 15 characters.
	- Add table `roles`.
	- Add table `users_roles` with indexes.
	- Check if you have all the settings (table `properties`) and modify and/or add them.
	
- Authorization:
	- Fill out the `roles` table using the `role` values ​​from all users. Again, assign the correct roles to users per the `users_roles` table.
	- The value in the column `role` of the table `users` can then be deleted.

- Routing:
	- Use the new user-routes in `cfg/routing.xml` (package `ch.autumo.beetroot.handler.users`).
	- Add the `LogHandler` route if you want see log events on the web.
	
- Web Resources
	- Make a backup of the `web` directory and remove it, then copy the `web` directory from the new release and add again your own templates.
	- Also add again your own translations to `web/html/lang_*.properties`.
	- Add again your own CSS styles.
	- Adjust again your menu and admin-menu blocks if you have changed them.
	- Adjust again your layout block if you have changed it.
	- Generally, check block templates if you have made customizations.
	- Add again any customization to templates and `columns.cfg` files (changes here: `*.role` -> `*.roles`, also add `*.phone`).
		
- Template adjustments
	- Tag change: `{$ifrole}` -> `{$if-role}`.
	- Tag change: `{$endifrole}` -> `{$endif-role}`.
	
- Configuration
	- `cfg/beetroot.cfg`:
		- Add key `dispatcher_log` (if you want to use the log handler).
		- Adjust values in keys `ws_cache_size` and `ws_file_cache_size`.
		- Add key `web_input_map` (initially empty).
		- Remove `web_roles`.
		- Add `web_admin_role_delete=no`.
		- Add `ws_use_ext_roles=yes`.
	- `cfg/htmlmap.cfg`:
		- Add it if you want to use customized HTML input types and patterns.
	
If you have further problems with the migration, contact autumo at [discord](https://discord.gg/xvAJrv6wmb).


<br>
<br>
Click <a href="../../README.md">here</a> to go to the main page.

<p align="right"><a href="#top">&uarr;</a></p>
